#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy
#This page aims to help users install Mia.  The same instructions are included in the installation folder f the download itself.

= MIA Installation Notes =

1) Create a new database and database user for Mia
2) Make sure the new database user has the permissions needed to create and manage the database
3) Run the SQL statements contained in the mia.sql file against your MySQL database (if you are not using MySQL find more information below)
4) Create a Mia configuration file called config.ini.php in the root of your Mia installation.  Use the included config.ini.sample.php file as your guide.
5) After setting up the configuration file make sure it is no longer writeable by the server (ex) chmod 444 config.ini.php
6) Remove the installation folder from your server
7) Mia uses HTMLPurifier (http://htmlpurifier.org) to help with input filtering and security issues like xss attacks, etc.  HTMLPurifier uses caching an its cache folder needs special permission to function properly.  Below you will find the documentation on setting this up.

Caching: HTML Purifier generates some cache files (generally one or two) to speed up its execution. For maximum performance, make sure that includes/htmlpurifier/HTMLPurifier/DefinitionCache/Serializer is writeable by the webserver.

If you are in the library/ folder of HTML Purifier, you can set the appropriate permissions using:

* chmod -R 0755 includes/htmlpurifier/HTMLPurifier/DefinitionCache/Serializer

If the above command doesn't work, you may need to assign write permissions to all. This may be necessary if your webserver runs as nobody, but is not recommended since it means any other user can write files in the directory. Use:

* chmod -R 0777 includes/htmlpurifier/HTMLPurifier/DefinitionCache/Serializer
You can also chmod files via your FTP client; this option is usually accessible by right clicking the corresponding directory and then selecting "chmod" or "file permissions".

Starting with 2.0.1, HTML Purifier will generate friendly error messages that will tell you exactly what you have to chmod the directory to, if in doubt, follow its advice.

If you are unable or unwilling to give write permissions to the cache directory, you can either disable the cache (and suffer a performance hit):

* $config->set('Core', 'DefinitionCache', null);

Or move the cache directory somewhere else (no trailing slash):

* $config->set('Cache', 'SerializerPath', '/home/user/absolute/path');
	    
8) That's it.  Browse to http://path_to_mia/index.php.  Enjoy :)

= Wait, what about non-MySQL databases? =

Mia includes the SQL file needed to create the proper MySQL database. However, Mia has been built with database portability 
in mind. The underlying structure uses ADOdb PHP (http://phplens.com/adodb/) for portability and as a result can communicate with most of the popular 
database management systems in use today (ex) IBM DB2, Oracle 8+, MySQL 4 or 5, MS SQL Server 2000+, SQLite 2+, PostgreSQL 7+.  The code to setup non-MySQL databases is not distributed with Mia. With a bit a work on your end it can be setup since the 
commication layer is in place. However, if you don't have the in house talent or time to do this work Brilaps, LLC does have an affordable commercial installer which makes setting up non-MySQL database structures and communication a snap. The installer requires you to fill out 1 short form and the rest is done for you automatically.  For more information on this please first the following url - http://brilaps.com/index.php?content=mia.